Tell me about yourself.

Hi! I'm Eddy Qiu, a computer science major graduating in Spring of 2025. This past summer I interned at Van Metre Companies, which is a real estate firm located in Fairfax, Virginia. I worked on the database team to help support and develop their on-site and cloud databases, which store pertinent information for the real estate, accounting, and bookkeeping aspects of their business. My work was primarily updating old scripts and creating new scripts to manipulate the data and make queries more efficient. Now I'm back at school, and one of my notable roles is the Tech Lead for the Maryland Undergraduate Research Journal, where I oversee management of the website. I'm really excited to share my experiences and learn more about the role and your experiences!

**Describe a situation where a teammate was unable to finish their work.**

My business honors class not very technical, unlike my computer science classes, and our work consists mostly of analysis and group projects. For one presentation on how a company would utilize AI for their business in the future, I was grouped up with several peers. We created a group chat and set up a time to meet in order to collaborate on the project, but when it came time to meet, there was a member who did not show up at all, even after us reminding him in the group chat. Since we had planned earlier to split up the work, we suddenly extra work to do. Chasing a good grade on the project, I volunteered to work on it, and some of my other team members also volunteered to help out. In the end, I don't think the teammate was penalized, but the rest of my team and I did gain even more teamwork and communication skills as a result.

https://github.com/viraptor/reverse-interview
Questions to ask interviewer:
1. Why did you want to work for this company?
2. How can someone be successful in the position?
3. What is your favorite part about working at this company?
4. What are some example projects of past interns?
5. What's the culture like between interns and the other employees?
6. Do interns choose their own project to pursue, or are they assigned to already existing projects?

Why...
SoFi
Personal finance has always been an interest of mine. Throughout high school and college, I have participated in stock market games, researched financial topics, and developed a plan for my financial future. SoFi's mission exactly aligns with my finance goals - to empower individuals to have better financial opportunities through loans, stock and retirement accounts, and user-friendly mobile and web experience. I would love to join SoFi not only to utilize my technical skills to provide value to society, but to also partake in SoFi's tight-knit culture though company events and programs like SoFi Cares.

Ecommerce has always been an interest of mine. Not only for personal shopping, I also love being on the seller side and creating products and web pages to provide value for others. I would love to work at nordstrom because I believe in their mission to provide the best shopping experience in a digital first platform. It would be a great opportunity to use my technical background to empower customers and brands with innovative ways to shop and sell. Some exciting potential projects I can think of are integrating artificial intelligence and machine learning to solve problems. 

I am interested in this role because of my passion for education, my ability to work in teams, and my previous experiences with working on projects. Though I have never had a product manager role, I would like to utilize my software development and leadership experience to break into PM.  At Duolingo, interns are trated similar to full time employees, as seen in their projects that are meaningful such as teaching Asian languages better. At the same time, Duolingo's culture encourages collaboration through events like cooking classes, duoversaries, and game nights. At Duolingo, I would gain a lot from other interns and employees from a product perspective, but also a language perspective as Duolingo features diverse and multilingual teams.

During my time as a database software engineer intern at Van Metre companies, a real estate company in Virginia this summer, we were undergoing a lot of drastic changes at the company. For exmaplke, we were changing a lot of our on site relational databases to azure cloud databases adn also changing the tools our accounting and business analyst teams were using to upload and retrieve data. during one of our projects with the accounting team,  i noticed that they were hacing rouble understanding some of the technicalities on how our new systems worked. Noticign this, I thought of ways to explain it to them in a less complex but fully emcompassing way….. drawing ……. by doing this, it was way easiser for everyone to understand and communicate about the project requirements an details, while not missing out on key information. By dridgbng this barrier, I believe that our communcation was enhanced and our collaboration was much smoother.

One challenging problem I faced occurred during a hackathon by Northrop Grumman at my school. When introduced to the challenge, we had to create a program to ingest an image or video set to and produce a log of objects identified. There were no other guidelines about how to create this program or what it should be about, so it was very open-ended. At the time, my teammates and I did not have that much experience with object detection and machine learning at all, and this was even our first hackathon ever. To solve this, we took a very structured approach to highlight each of our personal skills as well as our teamworking ability. First, we shared with each other and researched what we knew about neural networks and training machine learning models. Then, we chose to make our solution a Where's Waldo? detector, which we implemented with preexisting libraries and neural networks such as Pytorch and YOLOv5. Some other issues that popped up along the way were not having enough data, so we had to create our own large datasets, and finetuning our model to make it as accurate as possible. In the end, we were pretty successful, and we even managed to tie our project back to implications for Northrop Grumman's business value in sectors like space, defense, and intelligence.

ver 2;
One challenging problem I faced occurred during a hackathon by Northrop Grumman at my school. When introduced to the challenge, we had to create a program to ingest an image or video set to and produce a log of objects identified. There were no other guidelines about how to create this program or what it should be about, so it was very open-ended. At the time, my teammates and I did not have that much experience with object detection and machine learning at all, and this was even our first hackathon ever. To solve this, we took a very structured approach to highlight each of our personal skills as well as our teamworking ability. First, we shared with each other and researched what we knew about neural networks and training machine learning models. Then, we chose to make our solution a Where's Waldo? detector, which we implemented with preexisting libraries and neural networks such as Pytorch and YOLOv5. Some other problems that came up and I solved were not having enough publically available data, in which I manually labeled training and testing data, and helped to fine-tune our model to make it as accurate as possible. In the end, we were pretty successful given our time constraints, and we even managed to tie our project back to implications for Northrop Grumman's business value in sectors like space, defense, and intelligence. From this experience, I learned a lot about how many publically available technologies there are to help to implement cutting-edge ideas and that highlighting each member's strengths is a recipe for a successful group project.

I am interested in 84.51 because would like to contribute to empowering companies to make better business decisions and customers to have better experiences through the power of software. I truly believe in 84.51's mission statement to help people - I want to feel that my technical work is truly providing value to the world and helping people. I am interested in the software engineer intern role because it is a field that I would like to gain more experience in and likely continue a career in. At 84.51, I believe that I can learn a lot and engage in the company's tight-knit culture.

Through my experiences, I have gained a lot of technical knowledge that fits this position's job description. I am well versed in object oriented programming languages, and have used them for projects in and out of school. I have also worked with databases, primarily at my internship last summer. I also engage in a lot of self-learning through passion projects and hackathons that I recently attended (JPMorgan Data for Good, Northrop Grumman Innovation Factory). More importantly though, I think that my ability to adapt and learn quickly as well as my proficiency with collaborating with others enables me the most for success.

Outside of class, I engage in positions in clubs, organizations, and companies. For example, I am involved with the Maryland Undergraduate Research Journal, where I am a tech lead and on the executive board. I also work part time remotely at the company I interned at last summer. Further, to prepare me for a career in tech, I often do personal projects and explore topics or technologies that I am interested in.

During my time as a database software engineer intern at Van Metre companies, a real estate company in Virginia this summer, we were undergoing a lot of drastic changes at the company. For exmaplke, we were changing a lot of our on site relational databases to azure cloud databases adn also changing the tools our accounting and business analyst teams were using to upload and retrieve data. during one of our projects with the accounting team,  i noticed that they were hacing rouble understanding some of the technicalities on how our new systems worked. Noticign this, I thought of ways to explain it to them in a less complex but fully emcompassing way….. drawing ……. by doing this, it was way easiser for everyone to understand and communicate about the project requirements an details, while not missing out on key information. By dridgbng this barrier, I believe that our communcation was enhanced and our collaboration was much smoother.

Biggest Weakness - don't say any blatant red flags, don't be cliche
- Inexperience at a company of this scale or in a full time setting
- Familiar with some of their technologies (not an expert), but would love to learn more and interested in how they can help me learn it